MongoDB compatibility PHP quickstart (#352)
tigrisdata/tigris-docs: docs/quickstarts/mongodb-compatibility/php/index.mdx

---
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

import tigrisConfig from "@site/tigris.config.js";

# PHP MongoDB compatibility quickstart

This quickstart will get you up and running with an application that
demonstrates [Tigris MongoDB compatibility](/docs/concepts/mongodb-compatibility/).

You can view the
[source for the PHP MongoDB compatibility quickstart app](https://github.com/tigrisdata-community/tigris-mongodb-php-example)
on GitHub.

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/)

> - A [Tigris Cloud account](https://console.preview.tigrisdata.cloud/signup) or you can [self-host Tigris](https://www.tigrisdata.com/docs/concepts/platform/self-host/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [Tigris Cloud account](https://console.preview.tigrisdata.cloud/signup)
```

Reviewer: I suggest driving traffic from quickstart to Tigris Cloud. It is also the quickest way of getting started.

## Get the code

Clone the repo, navigate into the directories, and install the application
dependencies:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/tigrisdata-community/tigris-mongodb-php-example.git
cd tigris-mongodb-php-example
```

## Preparing Tigris

1. Create a project in Tigris.
1. Create an application key, and copy the Project Name, Client ID, and Client Secret values.

Copy the `.env.example` to a `.env` file:

```sh
cp .env.example .env
```

And update the values with your Tigris Project Name, Client ID, and Client Secret.

## Build and run using a new Docker image

Build the image:

```shell
DOCKER_BUILDKIT=0 docker build . -t tigris-mongodb-php-local
```

Run the example:

```shell
./get-started-local.sh
```

## Build and run using the pre-existing Docker image

```shell
./get-started.sh
```

## Explore the data

You can explore the data created by the quickstart application in
the <a href={tigrisConfig.consoleUrl}>Tigris Cloud Console</a>.

## Code walkthrough

> The example beings by loading in the dependenciesand connecting to Tigris using the MongoDB PHP library:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example beings by loading in the dependencies and connecting to Tigris using the MongoDB PHP library:
```
